# Ex 1.1.34

## Filtering

Which of the following *require* saving all the values from standard input
(in an array, say), and which could be implemented as a filter using only
a fixed number of variables and arrays of fixed size (not dependent on *n*)?
For each, the input comes from standard input and consists of *n* real
numbers between 0 and 1.

### Print the maximum and minimum numbers

Fixed: Store `max` and `min` variables and check each new number against
them, updating as necessary.

### Print the median of the numbers

Save: Cannot know which number is the median without assessing the whole
list of numbers.

### Print the *k*th smallest value

Fixed: Store a *k*-long array and a maximum variable. Populate the array
with the first *k* numbers. For each subsequent number *i*, if *i* is less than the maximum in the array (`array[length - 1]`), insert into the list in sorted order, and remove the largest number. The *k*th smallest number is the
last element in the array once all numbers have been processed.

### Print the sum of the squares of the numbers:

Fixed: Store a sum variable, and add $k^2$ to it for each *k* in the input.

### Print the percentage of the numbers greater than the average

Save: Average is unknown until all the numbers have been read, at which
point the numbers must be traversed again.

### Print the *n* numbers in increasing order

Save: Requires sorting the *n* numbers.

### Print the *n* numbers in random order

Fixed: If the original order count as random, just print numbers as they
come in.
